Okay, go ahead.
Is it working?
I was saying that with a chance to reflect back on the leadership training both as a cadet but now as a commandant to see the unique situation and environment that was in
the cadet company that I was in like the CO and the XO and the first sergeant in my company when I was a fish all went on to 30 year careers in the army and all retired as colonels.
I know that the most influential sophomore Gordon Hudson who I class of 64 who I had not seen since I graduated from A&M
showed back up here at noon time on the day that the bonfire collapsed and said to me, I thought you might need some help today.
What can I do?
And that type of character and leadership when you're around that, you know, you can't help, at least I couldn't help but be positively influenced by it all.
If you were a consultant to Texas A&M's leadership today,
what advice would you give them regarding how they should guide A&M forward from where we are to where we ought to reach?
Well I think you always get a lot of head nodding when you start talking about ideals and traditions and I think the unique things of Texas A&M should be maintained and I think the unique things are some of our traditions
certainly muster, certainly silver taps, probably others I could think of, but our traditions are important.
I think also the things about
I'd have to get down to specifics of things I'd like to see A&M commit to.
I think that Texas A&M needs a Phi Beta Kappa status.
I think Texas A&M needs a law school.
The fact that we don't have those, to me, we ought to get them.
Everything else, to me, is lip service and 99% head nods on most other things.
I think you have to get down to specifics very quick.
How large, do you have any thoughts about how large the enrollment ought to become?
Well, I think that Texas A&M, like a lot of universities, I think they have to break the mold, think outside the box.
I don't know that they're, I don't have any problem with 50,000.
I don't have any problem with 60,000.
I don't have any problem with more kids in larger classrooms.
at the freshman and sophomore level.
And I base this on what I know about the University of California system, which my daughter, oldest daughter went through.
and I believe if you have the right climate and the right academic environment on a campus that learning is going to occur and it's one of those things you create over time and it takes leadership by a lot of people
regents, president, faculty, deans, classrooms, instructors, attracting the best students and holding them to standards.
How large do you think the Corps should expect to be, hope to be, in say 10 years?
Well the the stated growth the stated size of the Corps and one which I am very comfortable with would be 2,600 cadets and the reason that is is that would take care of the 12 dormitories that are in the Corps area the Quad area would mean that they'd be fully occupied with cadets.
I'm very pleased with the fact that the Corps of Cadets has maintained their size during the six years that I was Commandant especially
when other schools are facing declining numbers and also the the dividend of the of the the peace dividend or the decline of the Soviet Union or the Berlin Wall has made the number of people in military uniform not the requirements aren't as high although the the technology and the need for a strong military are as prevalent now as they've been any time I think in the past 10 years.
All right, that causes me to think back to some matters that were decided while you were undergraduate.
While you were here as a student, the decision for coeducation, non-compulsory core, racial integration, and all those were made.
What would be your guess if we could have had a secret ballot of the student body at that time, what would the student body vote have been on coeducation?
I think they would have been against it, but I don't think it would have been overwhelmingly against it.
What about racial integration?
I think racial integration, I would like to think they'd have been emphatically for.
Were you here as a student on integration?
Oh, yes.
Did you know of any incidents?
I never heard of any.
It couldn't have gone more smoothly, could it?
No, the integration racially, the gender integration to me were smooth as they could possibly be.
What do you think the vote would have been of the entire student body on optional corps membership?
I think they would have, based on what we knew at the time, I think they would have voted for compulsory corps.
What about higher admission requirements?
I don't think that, I don't know how they would have voted.
I don't think there was a sufficient understanding.
I think that we all felt that we were sufficiently challenged in the classroom and we were getting a good education, so why make it harder to get in?
Okay, back to, we've got three more questions.
If you could make a major gift to Texas A&M, let's make believe that you won the lottery and you had a million dollars to spare, for what purpose would you want your major gift used?
If I had a million dollars, what I would like to do is see that I'd like to have Duncan Field reserved for the Corps of Cadets, and I'd like to make a lead gift for some type of...
facility if you will on Duncan Field that would be a Corps of Cadets multi-purpose building such as a could be a combination of the headquarters building or it could be a combination of a former Corps members building.
You know you have the Hagler building, the Williams building and the third in line if it was a Corps building on that corner
would be a would send a signal that this is the core is significant because these other two buildings are significant our former students in the foundation and so is the core and I like I like you know thinking in terms of three that the core would be there and it would reserve that space because I think that where the quad is now
with different dormitories the next fifty or a hundred years what they're going to be who knows what they're going to be like but I think the fact that you have a core center there you've got the center of the campus i.e.
this library and the facilities around it plus you've got rudder tower plus
You've got Kyle Field, and Kyle Field, to me, at least six or seven times a year is the anchor, if you will, that brings everybody back here because of the fact, you know, sometimes it's grass, sometimes it's astroturf, some combination of white and maroon uniforms.
the band is playing essentially the same kind of music and the yells although they change a little bit are the same so to me Kyle Field is kind of like a positive anchor
that brings people back here.
And if the Corps is close by and involved, you've got another part of the anchor there, if you will.
Okay.
To what former students, faculty, staff, advisors, to what Aggies do you at this time in your life feel most grateful?
Oh, the Aggies that I'm most grateful, I guess,
Cushing, Rudder for sure.
I feel a tremendous positive feeling about all the cadets that went through the Corps.
in the 20s and the 30s and the 40s and to me really went off and served their country with a distinction and a heroism that is just mind-boggling.
All right, I've only got one more question left.
Do you think of anything that you particularly wanted to get in here that we haven't touched?
The only thing I would add is that six years as Commandant of the Corps of Cadets has been wonderfully fulfilling.
I took the assignment, I thought, in terms of five years, but I stayed an extra year, the sixth year, if you will, to celebrate the 125th.
I feel really good about the essential values and practices of the Corps are still
Alive and well within the Corps of Cadets and I'm enthused about the future of the Corps of Cadets But at the same time I realize that it's a that it's fragile But it's fragile Because you have cadets that are involved in real decisions and sometimes they're gonna go awry and
and they're involved in real practice of leadership.
It's not made up type of things and sometimes it's gonna go awry.
So I hope that the support from the regents and from the president's office continues to be strong as it has been throughout the many, many years that the Corps has been in existence.
Last question, what feelings do you carry in your heart today for Texas A&M?
A deep love for Texas A&M, its traditions, its ideals, a deep love and respect for all that A&M has given the
state in the nation in the past and a high degree of confidence that the students and the staff faculty that are Texas A&M now are going to continue to to make those contributions and that just makes me feel really really good.